Major Revisons for the Previous Work Section (#46)
greenelab/text_mined_hetnet_manuscript: content/02.introduction.md

In this section, we briefly discuss selected efforts under each category.

#### Rule Based Extractors

Rule based extractors rely heavily on expert knowledge to perform extraction.
Typically, these systems use linguistic rules and heuristics to identify key sentences or phrases.
For example, a hypothetical extractor focused on protein phosphorylation events would identify sentences containing the phrase "gene X phosphorylates gene Y" [@doi:10.1109/TCBB.2014.2372765].
This word is a straightforward indication that two genes have a fundamental role in protein phosphorylation.
Other phrase extractors have been used to identify drug-disease treatments [@tag:ctd_medline], pharmcogenomic events [@tag:pharmpresso] and protein-protein interactions [@tag:ppinterfinder; @tag:hpiminer].
These extractors provide a simple but effective way to extract sentences; however, they depend on extensive knowledge about the text to be properly constructed.

> Besides using key phrases, a sentence's grammatical structure can be utilized to preform relationship extraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sentence's grammatical structure can also support relationship extraction with dependency trees.
```

> Extractors under this approach involve the use of dependency trees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

These trees are data structures that depict a sentence's grammatical relation structure in the form of nodes and edges.
Nodes represent words and the edges represent the dependency type each word shares between one another.
For example, a possible extractor would classify sentences as a positive if a sentence contained the following dependency tree path: "gene X (subject)-> promotes (verb)<- cell death (direct object) <- in (preposition) <-tumors (object of preposition)" [@tag:pkde4j].
This approach provide extremely precise results, but the quantity of positive results remains modest as sentences appear in distinct forms and structure.
Because of this limitation, recent approaches have incorporated methods on top of rule based extractors such as co-occurrence and machine learning systems [@doi:10.1186/s12859-018-2103-8; @tag:limtox].
We discuss the pros and cons of added methods in a later section.

> For this project, we took a blind approach to construct our label functions; however, the discussed approaches in this section provides substantial inspiration for novel label functions in future endeavors.

Reviewer: What does blind approach mean here?

Author: Ah I meant "blind approach" as in I constructed label functions without using any rules mentioned in discussed approaches.

Author: Changing for clarity

#### Unsupervised Extractors

Unsupervised extractors detect relationships without the need of annotated text.
Notable approaches exploit the fact that two entities can occur together in text.
This event is referred to as co-occurrence.
Extractors utilize these events in by generating statistics on the frequency of entity pairs occurring in text.
For example, a possible extractor would say gene X is associated with disease Y, because gene X and disease Y appear together more often than individually [@tag:diseases].
This approach has been used to establish the following relationship types: disease-gene relationships [@tag:diseases; @tag:polysearch; @tag:dg_text_pubmed; @tag:lgscore; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts; @tag:copub_discovery], protein-protein interactions [@tag:protein_protein_co_network; @doi:10.1093/database/bau012; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts], drug-disease treatments [@tag:abc_drugs], and tissue-gene relations [@doi:10.7717/peerj.1054].
Extractors using the co-occurrence strategy provide exceptional recall results; however, these methods may fail to detect underreported relationships, because they depend on entity-pair frequency for detection.

> Junge et al. created a hybrid approach to account for this issue  [@tag:cocoscore].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Junge et al. created a hybrid approach to account for this issue using distant supervision to train a classifier to learn the context of each sentence [@tag:cocoscore].
```

> Their approach utilized distant supervision to train a classifier to learn the context of each sentence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Once training had been completed, they used the classifier to score every sentence within their corpus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the classifier was trained, they scored every sentence within their corpus.
```

Each sentence's score was incorporated into calculating co-occurrence frequencies to establish relationship existence [@tag:cocoscore].
Co-occurrence approaches are powerful in establishing edges on the global scale; however, they cannot identify individual sentences without the need for supervised methods.  

> Clustering is an unsupervised approach that extracts relationships from text by group similar sentences together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clustering is an unsupervised approach that extracts relationships from text by grouping similar sentences together.
```

> A notable extractor used this technique to group sentences based on their grammatical structure [@tag:global_network].

Reviewer: What is "a notable extractor" here? Maybe rephrase.
